# Data Availability Statement for "An Analytical Model for the Influence of Soil Moisture on Temperature Extremes in the Midlatitudes"

By: Adam Michael Bauer

All data used in our study are freely available online or generated by codes in this package. We specify details below.

# Observational Data
Observational data was downloaded from `https://www.psl.noaa.gov/data/gridded/data.cpc.globaltemp.html` for temperature and `https://climate.esa.int/en/projects/soil-moisture/data/` for soil moisture. Follow the procedure outlined in the paper to clean the data to reproduce our results.

# Reanalysis Data
Reanalysis data was used downloaded from `https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/datasets/reanalysis-era5-single-levels?tab=overview`. We used the following variables:
- `t2m` (two meter air temperature)
- `d2m` (two meter dew point temperature)
- `t2max` (maximum two meter air temperature)
- `swvl1` (volumetric soil moisture in the uppermost layer)
- `e` (evapotranspiration)
- `ssr` (shortwave forcing)
- `slhf` (latent heat flux)
- `str` (longwave heat flux)
- `sshf` (sensible heat flux)
- `tp` (precipitation)

We post-processed hourly values into daily means. Please reach out to the corresponding author on the paper if you need assistance in downloading the data or post-processing it into daily mean values.

# Model Simulations
Comparing our soil moisture dynamics with ERA5 requires integrating our Hasselmann model with stochastic precipitation. These simulations will be generated on-the-fly when the code doesn't detect that another file exists. *NOTE*: They might take a while. :)
